----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 10
TITLE: Semi-Substructural Logics with Additives
AUTHORS: Niccolò Veltri and Cheng-Syuan Wan

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:
This paper contributes to a line of work by Uustalu, Zeilberger, and the authors of the submission,
in which semi-substructural logics are studied. Substructural means that the use of one or more 
of the structural rules of the sequent calculus is disallowed; for example weakening could be disallowed.
Semi means that associativity and unit are not equivalences but have a direction,
following the natural transformations I times A -> A and (A times B) times B -> A times (B times C)
in a (left) skew monoidal category as introduced by Szlachanyi. 
The semi-substructural logics in some sense `corresponding' to left skew monoidal categories
are then restricted fragments of linear logic. Then there are a priori many variations possible
depending on the formulation of the logic, on which structural rules are allowed, 
on which connectives are considered, and possibly even more.

The earlier work in this research program is presented in references [19,20,21,22,23,24] of the submission.

The present submission considers a sequent calculus for non-commutative intuitionistic linear logic,
with times, and with I as neutral element for times. where one of the formulas in the premise is called stoup 
and is special. So a sequent is of the form stoup (some formula or no formula), then an possibly empty
finite list of formulas, then exactly one formula as conclusion.
The new thing in the submission is that this logic is extended with additive conjunction written as /\
and additive disjunction written as \/. The neutral elements for those operators are not yet present.

Then, if I understand correctly, in line with the research program, there is on the one hand the 
sequent calculus, and on the other hand the left skew monoidal category with operation times 
(corresponding to the times or multiplicative conjunction in the logic) and unit I, extended
with binary product and co-products corresponding to the additives in the logic.
Now (Theorem 3.1) the derivations in the sequent calculus considered modulo an equivalence 
relation generated by a very large number of equations (page 4) are nicely modeled by the 
left skew monoidal category with binary products and co-products, in the sense that if we 
know how to map the atomic formulas to objects in a skew-etcetera category, 
then there is a unique way to map the derivations modulo this equivalence relation to the category.

Now the main technical part of the paper is in Section 4, where the idea is, I think, to find
a deterministic sequent calculus that corresponds to the derivations modulo this equivalence.
This is a technical hassle. The result is a sequent calculus ( (4) in the submission) with a lot
of additional annotations, meant make root-first proof search deterministic, that is sound
and complete with respect to the original sequent calculus (modulo the equivalence, I think).
This is stated in Thm 4.1. The section explains the background in finding the annotated
sequent calculus, which is nice. Important parts (in particular the statements in Thm 4.5) 
of the proof of Thm 4.1 are formalized in Agda (maybe all, I am not completely sure).

Section 5 contains some additions.
First the addition of additive units. Here I was a bit confused, maybe by notation, because I expected
indeed T as neutral element for the addition and but then I expected 0 as neutral element for the 
additive or. Probably some confusion on my side.
Then exchange and linear implication, to consider Lambek with additive conjunction and disjunction.
(I did not so much look at this part.)

In my opinion the paper is carefully prepared. I highly appreciate the formalization in Agda.
I am not familiar with the research programme of connecting some semi-substructural logics to 
skew monoidal categories but to me it seems interesting. So I think that globally I see the 
motivation. What I would be interested in hearing more about is the say local motivation.
Of course we can consider many variations on this theme. But what variations are interesting
and why? They are probably not all equally interesting or natural? Why is exactly the variation
considered in the present submission interesting? Is it only interesting for those knowing the 
ins and outs of the research programme or also for the interested outsiders? These and similar
questions I (identifying as interested outsider) wonder about. Also: what can we learn in 
general from the (I think nice) search for this highly annotated sequent calculus in Section 4?

All in all, because of the I think careful presentation (I could have missed technical points), 
the formalization in Agda, and the I think nice connection some sequent calculi on the one hand
and some skew monoidal category I think this submission is a good and welcome contribution to LSFA.
Personally I would, as said above, be interested in various reflection on the motivation of considering variants.


Some small remarks:
(fixed)p1: In Girard's linear logic, which have been -> which has been
(fixed)p3 point 1: There is a comment on the left rule for linear implication, but that rule isn't there it seems.
p5: what is `on the nose'?
p5: It would be nice to give some intuition for the name FDSkM.
p5: Is in Thm 3.1 F_0 the function F restricted to objects? (Sorry, could be completely standard...)
(fixed)p5: the equations in (2): Is this label correct? It seems that the remark is about the equations on p4?
p5: `confluent with unique normal forms': 
maybe add the causality; 
the unicity of normal forms is a consequence of the confluence I suppose?
(fixed)p6: no rule act -> no rule acts
p6: not A nor B -> maybe: neither A nor B



----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 10
TITLE: Semi-Substructural Logics with Additives
AUTHORS: Niccolò Veltri and Cheng-Syuan Wan

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)
----- TEXT:
The authors focus on substructural logics, in particular on semi-structural logics. These amount to the internal language of skew monoidal categories, which are a weakening of standard monoidal categories where the structural morphisms of associativity and unitality are not required to be invertible. In the present paper, the authors investigate the extension of semi-substructural logics with additive connectives. Part of the work has been formalised in Agda.

The paper builds on a number previous works by the same authors and co-authors. The overall impression is that this amounts to an on-going (incremental) work. But the paper is accurately written, and the authors will certainly benefit from having the opportunity to present their work at the workshop and from a discussion. Therefore, I am in favour of acceptance.



----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 10
TITLE: Semi-Substructural Logics with Additives
AUTHORS: Niccolò Veltri and Cheng-Syuan Wan

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 3 (strong accept)
----- TEXT:
This is the continuation of the work developed by some of the authors on sequent systems for skew categories. The idea is the following: 

1. Skew categories lack some of the arrow directions w.r.t. categories. Hence, for example, 1xA --> A but not the converse.

2. Sequent systems with stoup provide a way of separating the contexts, so to restrict operations to part of the context.

3. Focused systems control the flow of derivations, giving the proofs a normal form.

The authors use a weak kind of focused system in order to guarantee that the system is sound w.r.t. the original algebraic structure.

The paper is well written, the proofs are sound and I find the subject fascinating. The only observations I have are:

a. Coming from a LL community, it bothers me quite a lot the change of the symbols for Girard's operators. 

b. Although I understand the tag annotations, I found them very ad hoc, meaning that the systems is tailored for this kind of specific application, with a very specific behaviour.

The paper should definitely be accepted.

Typos and minor comments
========================

Typos:

(fixed)- Application of substructural logics are abundant --> Applications of substructural logics are abundant

(fixed)- which we call a stoup --> called stoup (add a reference)