From: "NCL'22" <ncl22@easychair.org>
To: Tarmo Uustalu <tarmo@cs.ioc.ee>
Subject: NCL'22 notification for paper 26
Date: Tue, 21 Dec 2021 04:21:54 +0100


Dear Tarmo Uustalu,

On behalf of the program committee for Non-Classical Logics. Theory
and Applications 2022, we are pleased to inform you that your
submission,

26 Proof Theory of Skew Non-Commutative MILL

has been accepted for publication in the proceedings of
NCL'22. Congratulations!

In this year's edition of NCL we received a great number of
submissions of excellent quality, which made us set the acceptance bar
very high. Final decisions were the resultants of the reports and
scores given by the reviewers as well as post-review discussions
between PC members. Below are the reviews and scores for your
submission.

In the following days we will send a separate email with detailed
instructions on how to prepare and upload the final version of your
submission.

Finally, we are still hoping to be able to hold the conference as a
physical event, however observing the new global outbreak of COVID-19
caused by the Omicron variant we are currently uncertain about the
feasibility of this plan. We therefore decided to postpone the final
decision until the first decade of January 2022 to see how the
situation develops and assess whether we can reasonably stick to the
in-person format of the conference.

Best regards,

Andrzej & Michał

SUBMISSION: 26
TITLE: Proof Theory of Skew Non-Commutative MILL


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 26
TITLE: Proof Theory of Skew Non-Commutative MILL
AUTHORS: Tarmo Uustalu, Niccolò Veltri and Cheng-Syuan Wan

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 0 (borderline paper)

----- TEXT:

As the autors write at the beginning in paper abstract: "Monoidal
closed categories are standard categorical models of NMILL,
non-commutative multiplicative intuitionistic linear logic: the
monoidal unit and tensor model the multiplicative unit and
conjunction; the internal hom models linear implication.  In the paper
aujtos proposed sequent calculus and categorial semantics to skew
(i.e. weaker version if this system. From technical point of view all
this looks sound. However all this seems to me artificial.  Why it is
important? What is new, original in proofs? Just one more
sophicalicated logical system prosented without deeper motivations.

----------- Reviewer's confidence -----------
SCORE: 3 ((medium))



----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 26
TITLE: Proof Theory of Skew Non-Commutative MILL
AUTHORS: Tarmo Uustalu, Niccolò Veltri and Cheng-Syuan Wan

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 3 (strong accept)

----- TEXT:

The paper is a continuation of previous works by T. Uustalu, N. Veltri
and N. Zeilberger. It focuses on a sequent calculus for NMILL^s, which
is a skew variant of non-commutative multiplicative intuitionistic
linear logic. The interest in this logic is clearly motivated by the
categorical notion of skew monoidal closed category.

The authors present the sequent calculus (based on previous results
[25,24,22,26]), two cut rules are added to the calculus that were
shown admissible elsewhere [25]. In the next sections the authors
study the categorical and the proof-theoretic semantics of NMILL^s. In
the former case it is demonstrated that the presented sequent calculus
is the initial model of NMILL^s. The latter leads to the study of
normal forms wrt the relation of reduction of derivations. The
normalization steps are made explicit by the introduction of another
variant of sequent calculus which is a focused system with tag
annotations. In addition, the focused system allows for a
goal-directed proof-search, it was formalized in the Agda
proof-assistant, and it can be used as a tool in solving the coherence
problem for skew monoidal closed categories.

As the authors admit, the paper presents part of a larger project, and
one can see that it is quite multi-threaded. The results are
interesting and definitely in the scope of the conference, the paper
is very carefully written and of high quality, hence my recommendation
with the highest score.

However, I found some parts of the paper difficult to read as the
content is quite condensed and relies on previous works. You can blame
it on the limits of the size of the paper but it would be of benefit
to the reader if the previous results were clearly marked - so, for
example, the reader would not expect a proof after the formulation of
Theorem 2.1 (I found the proof in [25]).

In the proof of Theorem 3.1 the illustrative case given on the top of
page 7 is for IL rather than pass. I found no other mistakes, not even
typos, except for the symbol I for a unit which is in italics on the
first page and in Definition 3.3 - this should be rather I in \mathsf

----------- Reviewer's confidence -----------
SCORE: 3 ((medium))



----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 26
TITLE: Proof Theory of Skew Non-Commutative MILL
AUTHORS: Tarmo Uustalu, Niccolò Veltri and Cheng-Syuan Wan

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
SCORE: 2 (accept)

----- TEXT:

The paper proposes sequent systems for logic called skew
non-commuatative multiplicative intuitionistic linear logic. This
logic is meant to be the logic of skew monoidal closed categories,
i.e. monoidal closed categories where we drop an important assumption
about three natural isomorphisms – now they are only natural
transformations. In effect, the laws of unit and law of associativity
are essentialy weaker. The logic usually connected with monoidal
closed categories is Lambek calculus without one of the
residuations. The paper focuses on its weaker, i.e. skew version.

The paper consists of five sections. The first section is an
Introduction. In the second section the authors propose a sequent
system for Skew NMILL. The system is interesting, since the rules may
be applied only to the left-most formula of the antecedent (stoup) and
the formula in the succedent. The rest of the antecedent is called
context. The main result of this section is cut-admissibility theorem
for this system. The authors also introduce an equivalence relation to
be used later.

The third section describes the categorical models of the logic. The
authors provide a definition of skew monoidal closed category and free
skew monoidal closed category Free(At). The main result of this
section shows how to obtain a functor from Free(At) to an arbitrary
skew monoidal closed category C, given the functor from At to C. It is
also proved that this functor is unique. The fourth section provides
examples of focused sequent systems for Skew MILL. The authors proves
that the sequent system given in this section is equivalent to the
system from section 2. The last section contains conclusions and
leaves open problems.

The results of this paper are continuation of previous works in this
matter. In particular one may compare this paper with [25] by two of
the same authors. The results are similar, but essentialy stronger. In
[25] there are no resiudations at all and here we have one. When we
consider categorical models of Lambek calculus, it is really
interesting question, what happens when we drop the assumption of
isomorphism. This paper and the previous works try to answer this
question and the results are surprisingly elegant. The open problems
stated in the last section are natural questions and I hope the
authors will find the answers.

I recommend this paper for the conference.

----------- Reviewer's confidence -----------
SCORE: 4 ((high))
